hey guys what's up and welcome back to
my channel welcome to the small etics
Channel today we are talking about how
to get back into your healthy lifestyle
if you've fallen off the wagon and hey
it happens to the best of us it happens
to personal trainers everyone at any
point can fall out of their healthy
lifestyle and what really matters is
that you're able to get back to it
quickly so that it you maintain your
habits and you don't fall off the wagon
in the long term because that's that's
really how you derail your progress so
today I'm gonna walk you through what a
single day would look like if you were
to just get back on track in one day and
just get it done with 24 hours we're
getting back into our healthy lifestyles
I know I need this between moving into
this apartment and just trying to
accommodate all my new workload I fell
off my nutrition and my fitness goals
last week and I did this reset myself
this past weekend and I'm back on track
here we are I'm feeling great and I know
you guys can do it too hey so the 24
hour starts now we're gonna pretend that
it's Saturday evening I would say choose
the weekend where you'll have more time
to dedicate an entire day to yourself to
getting back on track so we're gonna
start with Saturday night and it's gonna
end Sunday night my last Saturday night
what I did was I sat down and I created
an entire meal plan for myself so that I
could get back onto my meal prep habits
after I figured out what I wanted to eat
for breakfast lunch my sax my dinner and
course my desserts I then made a long
grocery list of everything I would need
to have about seven days worth of those
groceries if you already have a grocery
list you've used in the past you can
draw from that or you can create a new
one so you go to bed and wake up now
it's Sunday morning and we have step two
starting you're gonna wake up and go get
those groceries that's the first thing
you're gonna do is just stock your
fridge on Sunday morning with healthy
nutritious food that you are going to
cook later in the day so go execute on
that grocery list and go home and stock
a fridge
so just going meal by meal this is my
breakfast
I have pastured eggs got some avocados
this I usually get whole-wheat sourdough
this is just
and part skim mozzarella cheese that's
for my morning avocado and egg toast for
lunch I'm making ground turkey breasts
meatballs so turkey meatballs and
putting it in a wrap with some lettuce
the onions gonna poop the onions gonna
go into the meatball I have some cherry
tomatoes and then I use your percent fat
yogurt Greek yogurt because it's a great
sour cream substitute I'm so hungry
right now so I feel like I'm just like
not able to get my words out but I
always get 99% fat free ground turkey
breast if not there's usually like a 94
percent fat free staying in the low-fat
range so actually just took a break to
cook it because I'm so hungry that's my
egg Inaba toast the recipe is on my
Instagram if you want to see it these
are my snacks
I have Justin's which I obviously
already opened I kind of go back and
forth between all low-fat cottage cheese
because it's a great source of protein
it has 19 grams protein and a tub which
is excellent and apples those are my
midday snacks lastly for dinner I'm
gonna cook some steaks vegetables
steamed vegetables and I'll have a salad
with like a light dressing and I'll
usually have a dessert afterwards like a
yeah so pop or something of the like
step 3 you're gonna eat something
nutritious for breakfast
I have usually every morning avocado and
eggs on whole-wheat toast and this fuels
me it gets me my fats my carbohydrates
and my protein so that's step 3 choose a
healthy nutritious fueling breakfast
okay now we're at step four and this is
between breakfast and early afternoon so
you have a few hours in this window
you're going to create a workout program
for yourself if you've never created one
for yourself I have a video that could
help you get started or you can follow a
guide
have a book coming out that you can
pre-order now that will give you 12
weeks of fitness programming if you'd
rather not make one yourself but you can
also go buy something you've done in the
past I would start by we're not going to
get into details of how you create a
workout program in this video but I
would start with choosing how many days
a week can you truly commit to
exercising and make it a priority and
then choose what you'll be doing on
those days so physically I want you to
write out your plan for your workout in
an ideal world but something you could
really commit to so for me I am taking a
break from fencing for the first time
sort of in my life and I have the next
two months to work out freely in the gym
and not be bound to training for fencing
so I spent a lot of time creating my
workout program for me my goals are
going to be this summer for the rest of
the remainder of the summer I want to
work on my pull-up strength I want to be
able to do ten unassisted pull-ups right
now I can only do about two I'm also
anticipating a lot of change in my body
just because fencing is so quad dominant
and I've always had dominant quads but
I'm expecting that
I won't since I will be in a squatting
position for hours at a day that my
quads are gonna lose a little bit of
muscle mass I will be doing a little bit
more cardio since I'm losing probably
about six to ten hours of cardio per
week not fencing but I'm pretty much
gonna follow the same workout plan that
I outline in my both the petite strength
plan I always do total body workouts
that pretty much work all the main
muscle groups because even though I'm
not competing right now I still train
like an athlete I am an athlete and I'm
still going to follow an athletic
program that gives me functional ability
as well so just taking a closer look
here I will be following gym Wanderers
five-three-one method to improve my
strength in the primary lifts which are
the squat that lived overhead press and
bench press
now if you're doing these four lifts
already like I have always been then
you're probably doing great anyways what
I'll be doing is just a lot more
complicated in terms of the actual
programming of how many reps and sets
because my goal is really to improve my
strength in those lifts in a very
specific way also be following Brett
Contreras s's advice on glutes if you
guys don't know who he is he's really
known as the glute guy and I as you can
see I'm doing two glute focused days to
really work on my gluteal muscles okay
step 5 it is the middle of the day maybe
it's the early afternoon it's time to go
get your first workout in you really
can't skip this part
having the endorphins flowing through
your body it's gonna give you that life
that you need to stick with this healthy
lifestyle to feel that surge of oh I
feel like I'm really changing my
patterns and I'm getting back on track
and I feel good so go and do that very
first workout that you just programmed
for yourself in the morning just get it
done on Sunday okay
step 6 you come back to your apartment
or your house take a shower get in those
PJs and we are going to meal prep I want
you to cook all of your lunches first
put them into containers put them away
and then you'll cook your dinners so
that your dinner is fresh and you can
eat your dinner right after you cook it
[Music]
which leads to step 7
eat the healthy dinner that you just
cooked yourself and really enjoy it and
then package all that up put it in the
fridge for the next couple days of
dinner and step 8 is to go to bed early
after this long day of self-care which
takes work it's best to just get to
sleep early and just feel accomplished
feel like I jump-started my workout
schedule and my nutrition today and I'm
getting a bed early you're gonna wake up
Monday morning feeling refreshed
energized that you have a plan everyday
that you're ready to stick to so you
just put in this work on the weekends
for yourself and you're gonna just feel
so much better I promise you so I hope
you guys enjoyed this video I had a lot
of comments on Instagram people saying
that they could really relate to falling
off the wagon it's the middle of the
summer it's tough this stuff happens but
I'm here to help you and I want to help
you get back on to your goals and on
that path to achieving them so let's do
it together I started this this week and
things have been going well so far and
let me know how it's going for you if
you're able to jump-start your healthy
lifestyle as well and if you like this
video please subscribe and give it a
thumbs up alright guys that's it bye
[Music]